# mvp-picker
I’m brand new to the world of python as it relates to Data science/ML.  I spent this past year learning python through a variety of online code camps, MOOC’s, and just plain do-as-you-learn troubleshooting.   My first project is an attempt at an “accurate” NFL MVP predictor. My goals is to extract actionable insight for my fantasy football league because, whatever it takes to win, am I right?  Incidentally, access to in-depth NFL data is not so easy to attain.  I tried to scrape on my own from www.pro-football-reference.com, but I just ended up with very bland fantasy football stats from 1970-present.   After going back to the drawing board, I was able to find a solid dataset on Kaggle aptly named “NFL Football Players Stats*” which gives  game-by-game detail along with player bios.   With that that I was on my way to start my first non-tutorial ML project.It’s still a work in progress as each step of this project requires a deeper range of  understanding. Nonetheless, working through the winding learning curves has been a rewarding challenge.    The project is broken down into four parts: Scrape MVP table and Fantasy Seasons tables. Data preparation using pre-prepared and scraped data Data Visualization  Structure input features into simple predictive model  Currently, I’m familiarizing myself with the nuances of data visualization and its strategies behind them. My goal is to pinpoint meaningful trends that translate into actionable, league-dominating, insights!  As for the last piece of the project, I’m still a ways off from putting together a predictive model from scratch. For the purpose of understanding procedures, I use the Random Forest ensembles. As my “learn-journ” continues I plan on internalizing the maths driving the algorithms. I am a long way from being considered skillful in this regard, so I’ll continue to seek peer-reviews, and additional learning resources.      Data set is as recent as the end of last season. Does not include updated rosters and rookies.
